I am Shishaku Shibusawa Eiichi, born at “1840”
in Musashi province, I am also known as the
"father of Japanese capitalism".
I was a Japanese government official who helped
establish the reforms that put Japan on a
firm financial footing in the Meiji period.
My Shibusawa Company became one of the largest
of the financial cartels in the country, helping
establish the close relations between government
and business.
My parents were not wealthy; however, they
could afford to give me a good education.
I early joined the loyalist movement that
demanded the expulsion of all foreigners from
Japan.
Because of my ability I became a member of
the staff of Tokugawa Yoshinobu, who granted
me samurai status.
Later I was made a member of the central government.
I soon changed my expulsions ideas, went to
a visit around Europe.
On my return home, I discovered that the shogunate
had been overthrown and replaced by an imperial
government under the emperor Meiji.
I reformed the Japanese banking and trading.
In October “1869” I joined the government
as an official in the tax ministry and helped
carry out currency and tax reforms, revision
of the system of weights and measures, and
development of a new method of provincial
administration.
In “1873” I resigned from the government
as a result of a policy disagreement and became
president of the First National Bank, current
day Daiichi Kangyo Bank of Japan, which I
had helped found.
That same year I founded the Oji Paper Manufacturing
Company, and “10” years later I began
the famous Osaka Spinning Company.
Larger and more efficient than any other of
its kind, this plant established my dominance
over Japanese industrial life.
I, in fact, was involved in almost every enterprise
associated with the country’s industrial
development in this period, founding railways,
steamship companies, fisheries, printing companies,
steel plants, gas and electric industries,
and oil and mining concerns.
I retired in “1916” to devote myself to
social welfare causes, in which I actively
continued until my death at “1931”.
I lived to make Japan a global economical
power and to let Japanese people live in prosperity.
I hope today everyone is benefiting from my
reforms.